Both whiteheads and blackheads are comedones,
which means a hair follicle
with a plug made up of oil
and dead skin cells
that traps bacteria beneath.
Microscopic glands in the skin
supply an oily substance called sebum
to hair follicles, often called pores.
Sebum is designed to lubricate
the hair and skin
and usually drains to the surface.
Sometimes, however,
the sebum becomes blocked
and bacteria begin to grow.
If the build up of sebum and bacteria
does not have an opening to the surface
of the skin, it is called a whitehead.
A blackhead forms if the pore
opens to the surface,
allowing air to enter.
Sebum contains a pigment called melanin
the same substance that gives our skin color.
Melanin turns dark or oxidizes
if it is exposed to the air,
which is why blackheads are dark.
They are not dirt
and scrubbing does not remove them.
Both blackheads and whiteheads
can release their contents and heal,
although this process can be slow.